in response to the Hamas attacks Israel
called up 360,000 reservists now that
figure amounts to 4% of the country's
population it has also been massing
forces close to Gaza Israel says that it
will destroy Hamas and has signaled
again and again that it will send in
troops to carry out that task Gaza is
one of the most densely populated places
on the planet fighting there is
predicted to be very hard and
costly ahead of that ground oper in Gaza
the US is sending military advisors to
Israel here's White House security
spokesman John
Kirby uh what I can tell you is that um
that there
are uh a few um relevant Military
Officers with experience the kinds of
experience that uh that uh that we
believe um is is appropriate to uh the
sorts of operations that that Israel is
conducting and may conduct in the future
uh to go over there to share some
perspectives from their own experience
and to ask the hard questions the same
hard questions that we've been asking of
our Israeli counterparts since the
beginning all right I want to take this
now over to Brad Bowman he's with the
foundation for defense of democracies
it's good to see you again Brad among
the military advisers that are going
over I understand one is Marine
lieutenant general James Glenn who he
has experienced fighting against Islamic
State he served in fujia in Iraq one of
the bloodiest Urban battles in recent
hisory history all of that considered
what kind of expertise can the US offer
Israel
here you know the Israel uh Israel has a
formidable military it's the best uh
most effective military in the Middle
East uh but the United States has a lot
of experience in the Middle East too to
say the least over the last 20 years
after 911 and you have
uh gentleman such as the the Marine
Corps Lieutenant General who spent many
years fighting in some of the toughest
places a lot of that the kind of urban
Warfare where there are lessons that
were learned at Great cost great human
cost that can be shared with our Israeli
allies to help them accomplish their
objectives at at the lowest cost for
them do you think the US believes the
Israelis have a properly conceived
well-thought out plan to enter
Gaza I think after the October 7 terror
attack and your previous guest helped
your viewers kind of understand some of
the anger that I'm also hearing from
Israelis which is understandable right
it was some sort of combination I think
for them of Pearl Harbor 911 under per
capita terms it was roughly equivalent
to 40 or 50,000 Americans dying roughly
13 to 14 times more Americans that died
in 9911 but these terrorists didn't come
from Afghanistan they came from a mile
or two away and came crashing into their
living rooms doing horrible things and
so uh there there's great anger in
Israel and that's understandable they uh
they want to defend their military but
saying you're going to destroy Hamas and
doing it are two wildly different things
and after you destroy them what comes
next Israel doesn't want to occupy Gaza
so if they're not going to occupy it
who's going to rule it there are very
tough questions uh that need to be
answered but right now Israel just wants
to prevent October 7th from happening
again yeah and if you if you go in how
clear does your objective um appear to
be I mean to the untrained eye to people
looking from the outside Israel's
objective of destroying Hamas seems to
be more of a desire than a clear
objective how do how do you see it yeah
no you know we have something in the US
called the the wine Burger Doctrine or
the power Doctrine it's it's a list of
questions you ask before starting a
military conflict and and one of those
questions is you know what's your exit
strategy right and so uh you know we
call that a phase four oper you know
what do you do after you you accomplish
your military objectives but to
accomplish your military objectives in
one of the most dense environments on
Earth Urban environment Ms with many
many miles of underground tunnels
stocked with weapons that enable Hamas
fighters to survive bombardment and
conduct surprise attacks many of their
arsenals stored under hospitals and
schools they know the territory you're
literally talking about block by block
building by building room by room
fighting and then you have to hold that
ground once you have it right and then
you're looking at a counter Insurgency
so this is as General Petraeus said
fishlyn
um and so I think what Israel is looking
at right now is maybe just focusing on
Northern Gaza and transforming Northern
Gaza and and then maybe stop there
because they're looking out of their one
of their eyes at Hezbollah on the North
and wondering whether when they get
bogged down in Gaza is Hezbollah gonna
come in in a major way in the north and
do you think that's that's a big worry
too Among Us military advisers that
Israel is going to find itself with a
multi-front
war yes absolutely that's the the the US
has sent extraordinary combat power in
the last couple weeks to the Middle East
two carrier strike groups a Marine
Expeditionary Unit f-15s f16s f-35s a10s
air and missile defense units the list
goes on and on and President Biden looks
in the camera secretary Austin looks at
the camera says don't don't who's he
talking to he's talking to Iran and it's
Terror puppet Hezbollah to try to
prevent a a a another front in Israel's
North not to mention the West Bank which
could light up as well let me ask you
before we run out of time we've got
about a minute a minute minute and a
half the the us we know it's aiding
Ukraine we've talked about that before
it's also keeping an eye on China and
it's now committing we what two aircraft
carriers to Israel's defense in the
Mediterranean or in the Gulf region is
there a danger of the US military
overreach
here no I think in this moment there's a
danger of under reach I think if we
don't deploy combat power now we're
going to have a a smaller problem become
a bigger problem thereby siphoning off
more resources so this is the danger
here is American weakness not strength
and the indopacific commander recently
at the Pentagon Podium said not a single
asset has been pulled from the Indo
Pacific for this this fight so the
United States is a great power we can
walk in ch gum at at the same time and
this is a moment to stand in my view
with our Ally Israel and to recognize
that Behind These Terror puppets is the
puppet master and that's the Islamic
Republic of Iran and how close do you
think a war with Iran is due to events
that have happened in the last two three
weeks hard to say but the big question
is Hezbollah does Tran use its Varsity
Terror team to try to save the junior
varsity Hamas Terror team the primary
purpose of Hezbollah is to deter Israel
from conducting an attack against Iran's
nuclear program Brad Bowman with the
foundation for the defense of
democracies Brad is always good to talk
with you we appreciate the analysis
thank
you thank
you now Israel is expected to launch a
ground offensive into Gaza in
retribution for the terrorist attacks
and to free the hostages being held in
Gaza so let's get some analysis from
Frank led a former British army officer
and a senior lecturer at the University
of Portsmouth in the UK it's good to see
you Frank um Israel's military says that
it is ready and waiting for instruction
from political leaders on the next move
what do you think is going through
Benjamin netanyahu's mind right now
what's he waiting
for well good afternoon Ana there are
multiple vectors of advice going into
netanyahu's command group at the moment
first of all there's a dispute
apparently between the military advisers
and and political advisers come back to
that in a second about whether now is
the time to begin this campaign this is
further Complicated by
American uh perspectives to the effect
that they don't believe that there are
achievable goals in the current Israeli
plan and they're particularly concerned
of course about an aftermath and not
making the same mistakes that we made in
Iraq and Afghanistan so it's a highly
complex situation of course that's
Complicated by the hostage
situation I suspect no decisions going
to be made for several days and there'll
be no offensive for that time but look
it's uh it's Crystal Ball stuff it's
very complex a very difficult decision
you mentioned the hos hostage situation
how is still holding more than 200
hostages what would a ground Invasion
mean for
them well the assessments are being
constantly updated it's extremely
Dynamic and the advice going to Israel's
commanders and and political leaders
will be roughly like this that they may
have identified certain certain places
uh where hostages are located and they
may feel or may not that they can get
these out and that'll be weighed against
the
potential disadvantage of delay which I
I don't see that many frankly but uh
that's not what I think doesn't really
count uh certainly the Israeli uh
hostage release teams will have
identified certain places by now in what
hostages have called the spiders web of
tunnels that's the key thing here uh but
y they're part of the decision and of
course that further is Complicated by
Hamas using the hostages as an extended
negotiating tactic as prolonging this
time increasing confusion and of course
Alig them more time to
prepare the US is reportedly saying it
wants Israel to delay its military
operation to give the hostage
negotiations more time so are you
suggesting that a further delay wouldn't
play into the hands of Hamas
militarily no I think it cut it cuts two
ways I mean if Israeli planners will be
always interested in gaining more
intelligence understanding the battle
they're going to fight but of course as
the Americans speak about hostages there
are other concerns and even greater
concerns and that's the real fear the US
has for horizontal extension and
escalation of this and just by way of
example one example the US has sent Only
Yesterday announced the sending of uh
what I call terminal high altitude uh
interceptors now these are only use
they're not useful against the
Palestinian Hamas or Lebanese hollah
they are designed against Iranian
ballistic missiles so the US is very
concerned now about escalation and they
feel any that the time taken in
consideration particularly for any
aftermath and the operations taken to
get there that's to say to try and
reduce as far as possible the political
significance of heavy casualties that
time would be well spent a hostages of
course are an extra advantage and the
longer the this goes on of course the
more the chance of more hostages will be
released but the danger is this is a
Hamas negotiating tactic to to to
prolong this and prolong the agony as
well well and let's not make the mistake
of thinking this is human these are
humanitarian releases they're not Frank
thanks so much for your analysis that's
military expert Frank Lew in the
UK